What I'm talking to you about, almost
nobody in the field knows anything that
I'm saying here. And how do I know that?
Because they're not using these
techniques in their in their clinics. If
they if they understood what I'm saying,
they would be transitioning over to this
immediately.
Professor Seyfried, there has been so
much money invested on the war against
cancer over the years
and research. People have been
fundraising, trying to raise money to,
you know, continue to do research to try
and find the cure.
We've made very little progress given
what we've been doing in the energy and
money invested. Why do you think this
is?
Well, thank you, Jesse. Listen,
according to the
uh National Cancer Institute, American
Sorry, American Society
uh uh
for cancer.
Um we've made big progress.
Okay, so you got it that we've dropped
cancer deaths by 30
30-something per 37%.
Um so they consider we're making big
progress. American Cancer Society out of
Atlanta, Georgia.
So in the 1990s, early 1990s, we really
instituted big
the anti-smoking campaign.
So people stopped smoking because they
realized it put them at risk for cancer.
And the big drop or the great ad-
advantage that everybody is talking
about how much wonderful advance we made
in cancer is that the projection Had we
not smoked,
we would have a lot more dead people
from cancer today than we had in 1990.
So what you do is you run out that that
uh trajectory to 2023
and say, "Oh, if we continue to smoke,
we would have had a lot more cancer." So
the fact that we stopped smoking, we
actually reduced the number of cancer
deaths by 35% or whatever it is.
But it's a projection from from
prevention.
Uh no advance from any therapeutic
treatments that were given. So most of
the great advance in cancer over the
last 30, 40 years came from the people
not smoking.
Now, the other problem we have in today
now is that obesity is replacing cancer
as the number one risk factor for for
the for the problem. So we're back to
almost where we started from and we're
not making any real progress.
The the the problem is is that um
there's a misunderstanding about what
the nature of the disease is and this is
the real issue. It's not so much smoke
and mirrors as what the uh
the the cancer societies like to use.
Um it's the failed recognition that
cancer is a metabolic disease. It's not
a it's not a genetic disease. So when
you look at the treatments that you see
for cancer patients, what are these
treatments? Chemo, radiation, and some
of these new immunotherapies.
And we hear new drugs all the time being
developed for cancer and yet with the
more drugs that we develop for cancer,
the more cancer we get. So uh there's
something seriously wrong here. And if
you look back at the drugs we're
developing, they're all based on the
somatic mutation theory of the disease,
which is cancer is a disease of somatic
mutations and that um you know, we we
have drugs that are precision medicine,
targeted therapies and all this kind of
stuff. That they make it seem like this
is going to be the solution to the
problem. It's not. Uh because the
disease is not a genetic disease. So mo-
most of the stuff that we're using is
largely irrelevant and it's toxic, hurts
the patient, costs a lot of money, and
it really doesn't do the job that you'd
expect it to do. Of course, there are a
few people that respond really, really
well. And we use those people to justify
why we need to continue with this kind
of strategy. But in the long run, uh
it's not going to help the majority
cancer patients that do end up dying
suffering from the treatments. So and
that has to do largely with the
misunderstanding of what the nature
underlying mechanism is with the
disease. And as I said, it's a metabolic
disease that can be that's driven by two
fuels, the sugar glucose and the amino
acid glutamine. And these two fuels are
the ones that drive the disregulated
cell growth, which is ultimately the
definition of cancer. So when people
say, "What is cancer?" It's disregulated
cell growth, cell division out of
control. What is it driven by? It's
driven by a form of energy that doesn't
require oxygen. Oh yeah, well what
doesn't require oxygen? Well,
fermentation mechanisms. Oh yeah, what's
that? Well, you use fuels that don't
require oxygen. What do What are these
fuels? These fuels are the sugar glucose
and the and the amino acid glutamine.
Wow, that seems simple. How come
nobody's targeting these fuels to manage
cancer? Because they think it's a
genetic disease, not a metabolic
disease.
Not that complicated.
You mentioned early on how all the
progress being made, or at least the
majority is, when it comes to prevention
because people aren't smoking as much.
The doctors that are giving these
treatments and the researchers who are
coming up with these drugs, do you feel
like they feel in their hearts that
they're making progress
or
are they oblivious to what you're
talking about there where it's just the
smoking factor?
Yeah, well I I think they intrinsically
know. I mean, they're the guys treating
the patients. Um of course, they have
some success.
Uh but they also see a lot of failures.
And um
but they're told what to do by a by the
AMA medical American Medical
Association. The standard of care is is
like written in granite. And their job
is not to question the standard of care,
but to follow the rules of the standard
of care, which then if you come in with
lung cancer, breast cancer, colon
cancer, bladder cancer, they have a
protocol that they use to treat that.
Surgical first perhaps, radiation
perhaps, a a treatment program for a
program for some drug. Um and thereby
the grace of God you survive. Uh but a
lot of people don't survive and that's
why we have over 1,600 people a day,
every single day, dying from cancer in
this country. And it's over 8,000 a day
in China and it's it's rampant
throughout the world. And they're
talking about cancer replacing heart
disease as the number one killer of
people on the planet for a disease
basis.
So if if they're already recognizing
that cancer will overtake heart disease
in the next year, and in fact in in
China it already has overtaken heart
disease. That tells us that they're
making no progress. Because if they were
making progress, heart disease would
remain as the number one killer, but
cancer is now uh
ready to overtake heart disease. So if
we're making so many so much progress
about the smoke and mirrors and all this
other stuff, why why are we why do we
have so many people dying from cancer?
1,600 people a day dying. Think of all
the people that are massively suffering
from the treatments they received from
this.
Um if you had something successful, you
would be able to drop the death rate.
Even even President Biden in his State
of the Union speech, he wants to drop
cancer deaths rates by, I don't know,
50% in 30 years. We can drop that we can
drop that in 5 years knowing what we
know about the origin of of cancer as a
metabolic disease. Those numbers are
easily achievable if you switch the the
the paradigm. It's not a genetic
disease, it's a metabolic disease. So if
we treat the cancer as a metabolic
disease, yeah, we're going to get what
President Biden wants in a lot faster
time. Well, the interesting thing is
that you've been doing this research,
you and your team and other teams, for
years.
And you know, you've you've putting
together this case for what we're going
to talk about today.
And I'm just curious, what happens when
you and your team release a paper in a
major journal
and it does simplify things again, what
we're going to get into today. Like
how can that not get the recognition
when it's so obvious that things aren't
working the current way that they are?
Yeah, you should
you know the reasons, right?
Um
there's several reasons.
Uh number number one, the dogma. The
dogma says cancer is a genetic disease
and uh we must stay the course. That's
one reason.
The other reason is lack of knowledge.
Most oncologists never heard of what I'm
telling you. They don't read the
scientific They don't read these papers.
So if you don't read the paper, how are
you ever going to be told that what's
right or what's not right? Um when
patients who do have great success with
metabolic therapy go back to their
oncologist, the oncologist says, "Wow,
that's really good. Continue to do what
you're doing." Well, don't you want to
know what I'm doing, why I I'm not like
the rest of your pa- No, I don't want to
know that. Just continue to do what
you're doing.
These are the kinds of responses and
then most importantly,
it's hard to get somebody to accept
something when their salary depends on
them not accepting it.
So uh and I think that might be the
uh one of the biggest uh challenges that
we have. So it's not one thing, it's
it's a group of things that prevent And
my papers are being read. Don't don't
get it wrong. It's just they're not
being cited.
They're being essentially ignored.
Well, where my curiosity is just to go a
little bit further into this,
you know, why isn't a journalist out
there realizing that
he could basically make his or her
career
from, you know, printing an article that
people understand in Time magazine
and and getting this out to the masses
and and you could be the recipient of a
Nobel Prize. Like there's there is so
much potential here for somebody to
to decipher
and and sift this information in a major
publication like Time magazine or the
New York Times in a way people can
understand it and grab onto it and start
to get some momentum going.
Yeah, well, you know, it's not that
easy.
Uh when a journalist would hear what
we're saying,
they run off to
uh MD Anderson, Sloan Kettering,
Dana-Farber, and they ask the top
oncologists, "What do you think of
this?" Uh there's no evidence to support
that.
Right. Rather than looking at the data
themselves. And why don't you ask the
patients who were survive ask the ask
the the multitudes of people that are
surviving uh as the result of this. And
And don't think um this is not going
unnoticed. Uh the documentary movie of
uh the cancer revolution, which is under
construction for part A has already been
uh developed. And they interview dozens
of people that were so-called terminal.
Uh I'm a there's I'm alive. I'm doing
well. I'm doing well. I'm alive. I'm
alive. Da da da all back and forth. So,
how long will it take? And don't forget
most people prefer to watch The Bachelor
uh rather than documentaries. Right? I
mean, you have to look at the Look at
the Look at what people are watching.
You think they want to watch a uh a show
on cancer versus a really exciting
uh uh show about The Bachelor?
I mean, that's where the mentality is
where the mindset is. People People have
enough problems in their life. They
don't want to be talking about cancer
unless unless it affects them directly.
And then when it affects them directly,
where do they go? They go to the top
medical schools. And then they ask them,
"What about metabolic Oh, no, no. Meta
If I If metabolic therapy were were
real, I would have heard about it. Okay,
where are the clinical trials? Yeah, I
can't believe anything unless I see a
clinical trial supporting. You can't do
a clinical trial on the kinds of
metabolic therapy we do with
double-blind crossovers. It would be
immoral to do that. A person to do
metabolic therapy, it's diet drug
combos. And you can't do the strategy uh
uh the way it's being done currently in
in in the pharmaceutical attempts to
make drugs for for for uh clinical
trials. So, so we have to redesign the
types of clinical trials. Compare it to
um
what we call uh historic controls, okay?
So, for glioblastoma, the brain tumor,
you know, um if you if you're surviving
after 5 years, there may be 5 or 7% of
people that get standard of care that
actually survive 5 years. Okay, so we're
not going to put in a group of GBM
patients that get radiation and chemo.
And uh uh And as a matter of fact, they
will not let they will not do the
critical control group. And they do this
for a lot of cancers. So, we're going to
use standard of care, which is radiation
and chemo, plus metabolic therapy. Okay,
how does that work? But where is your
metabolic therapy group by itself to
compare standard of care, standard of
care with metabolic therapy, metabolic
therapy by itself? Uh can't do that,
sorry. So, the very system will not not
allow this stuff to get through the
system. Because God forbid it works.
Suppose the metabolic therapy
people live a hell of a lot longer than
standard of care or even standard of
care with metabolic therapy. What's
going to happen?
So, correct me if I'm wrong. What you're
saying here is the fact that we can't
get a clean trial where we get to see
metabolic therapy on its own because of
ethics. Yeah. And
Ethics. what they're doing or I don't I
don't I can't I'm not sure if it's you
and your team or other researchers, but
what we've been able to do is do
standard of care chemotherapy,
radiation, surgery, and then apply
metabolic therapy after the body's been
trashed by those.
And what I from hearing you talk on
other conversations, it sounds like the
therapy we're going to talk about today
because it is so effective is able to
help people even after their body's been
trashed.
Uh that's true. At least in some
instances. Yeah, it is absolutely right
in some instances, not all instances,
okay? There's some people, especially
for glioblastoma, radiation liquefies
your brain. So, uh uh even even you
can't ask a metabolic therapy to
uh to you know, stop radiation from
liquefying. It actually can help you,
but it And the people that survive, and
there have been a few studies that have
been uh standard of care with metabolic
therapy, um who are in fact doing
better. Uh there's no question about it.
But could they even do better? I think
they can do massively better if you
didn't irradiate the brain. I have shown
in no uncertain terms that radiation of
the brain is like the worst thing you
can do to a brain cancer patient. Why?
Because it frees up massive amounts of
the two fuels that are absolutely
necessary for the growth of those tumor
cells and survival, the glucose and the
glutamine. When you irradiate the brain,
you free up massive amounts of
glutamine, which fuel those cancer
cells, make them resistant to
chemotherapy and resistant to more
radiation, and it's just like nuts. And
no matter how many times that I write
these papers in excruciating detail
describing in no uncertain terms how the
radiation of the brain is causing the
recurrence of the tumor and the death of
their patients, it you might as well be
talking to a stone because it doesn't
have any impact on the people doing
these kinds of treatments. So, um
you have to look at it and say, "Wow,
you're continuing to treat these people
with a therapy you know does not work
and it may in fact lead to their demise,
and yet you continue to do that over and
over and over again. Why is that? What
could explain another human being doing
that to a a person?
And And these are the kinds of things
that nobody wants to touch with a 10-ft
pole because you have to change the
standard of care. And the standard of
care is like written in granite. And And
there's a lot of revenue to be generated
from these standards of care. So, until
you come in with a business model that
can replace the revenue from standard of
care, standard of care will maintain in
place regardless of the outcome. And
people say, "How could you say that
stuff?" I says, "Why don't you look at
the death certificates. Why don't you
look at the survival curves from every
major hospital in the world doing this
kind of a therapy? It's abysmal. And yet
they do it." All right, let's get really
granular here and talk about the
metabolic therapy. So, if somebody were
to have a brain tumor,
we'll use the glioblastoma like you
mentioned earlier.
We know glutamine and and eliminating
that plus eliminating glucose is part of
the treatment.
Let's talk really again on a granular
level what that looks like. How does
somebody begin to to do that through
diet and drugs?
Well,
yeah, the first thing the first thing
Now, the GBM you you have
it's a it's a it's a call on the
surgeon. They have to make a decision
because some GBM, if it's not operated
on immediately, it could herniate and
kill that patient very, very quickly.
So, everything is a a judgment call on
the part of the surgeon. The the surgeon
has to do MRI
uh a variety of different uh
um
uh uh scans uh to evaluate where that
tumor is,
the size of it, if it's impacting. Uh
not all the time, but many times you
have a watchful waiting period before
you have to have the tumor removed
surgically. We're not We're not against
You've got to We There's thousands of
articles I wouldn't say thousands,
hundreds of articles in the scientific
literature showing that the more I can
debulk uh the get rid of it, the longer
the patient will survive. No question
about that. The issue, of course, is
that if you have a watchful waiting
period, this is an angry mess. And I'm
not talking I'm I could be talking about
uh liver cancer. I could be talking
about bladder, uh colon, lung. They all
have a lot of inflammation in the
microenvironment. A lot of it's kind of
bloody bloody and angry uh uh inflamed
and all this kind of stuff.
Uh you you want to reduce local
inflammation as best you can so that
when you do the surgical debulking, you
have more sharp edges around that tumor.
And that when you do the debulking,
you're going to get a lot more of the
tumor than if you go into go after this
tumor like a bull in a in a in a china
shop because you're going to create a a
mess. And that mess is going to elicit
these tumor cells to invade and
disseminate through the brain. So, you
really want to get as many tumor cells
back into the central mass as possible,
and you can do that by water only
fasting,
extremely restricted ketogenic diets.
You can get the inflammation in that to
be less than it is. You make the mass
less angry, less inflamed. Surgeon comes
in, debulks. Already that patient will
have a a
an advantage to survive better. Just
because the surgeon was able to take
more. How do I know that? Because we did
the experiments here in the lab. We
calculated all the angiogenic bad blood
vessels, the inflammation. We measured
all the biomarkers and biochemical
readouts for these things, and we can
see it the demarcation comes really
sharp. Inflammation goes down.
Angiogenesis goes down, which is
abnormal blood vessel development. So,
you have all of the markers, and some of
the tumor cells start to die. So, all of
this is really favorable therapeutic
response if you have a watchful waiting
period. So, then the surgeon takes it
out. And then after the surgeon would
take it out, you would then transition
back onto metabolic therapy. And there's
a number of different drugs that we can
use to facilitate calorie restricted
ketogenic diets, water only fasting.
These drugs are designed to specifically
target the glucose and glutamine
pathways in those tumor cells while not
harming any of the normal cells of the
body. So, you don't have uh nausea,
vomiting, diarrhea, hair loss, all this
crazy stuff. You know, you're going
specifically at the heart of what those
tumor cells need to survive. And then
you hope for the best. And And we're not
like our one patient, Pablo Kelly, who
has a a website talks about his survival
over 8 years now. His tumor is not
cured. It continues to grow, but it was
made indolent. So, every 3 or 4 years he
has a debulking surgery and goes back
about his life. So, I I think I think a
lot of people think we should cure
cancer. We Of course, everybody would
like to cure cancer. But, the second
best thing is learning to live with it.
If you had a terminal cancer and you're
not terminal,
uh you might be at some point, but
you're outliving by by by long periods
what you would have been expected to
live. What's wrong with that? So, uh in
other words, can you have effective
management with maintaining a high
quality of life? Um and maybe you
eventually will die from this tumor, but
you won't die in the time frame that 98%
of the people are dying and you're going
to live a lot longer. So, the idea is
this is a a very new strategy for
managing cancer. Is it perfected? No. Do
we understand the problems? Yes. Can we
design strategies to deal with the
problems? Absolutely. So, it it's a work
in progress, but in the end, you want
GBM patients to survive a minimum of 5
years. Not
uh of two people surviving after 5
years. You want them You want at least
half of the patients to be alive at 5
years. And that's not what we're seeing
today. And I can go through the list of
every major cancer. Breast cancer, colon
cancer, bladder cancer, liver cancer.
They're all They all have the same
problem. They need glucose and
glutamine. We found that. We know that.
We We know that. So, it's a singular
strategy tweaked a little bit different
for each type of cancer, but it's
basically the same strategy. This is not
what people
what the industry wants to hear, believe
me. So, when we go to cut off the
glucose supply, which is feeding the
cancer cell and allowing them to ferment
and make more energy,
you mentioned there water fasting and
the ketogenic diet.
I'm curious for somebody who does decide
to take on one of those is the dietary
piece to address that part of the
cancer.
Is there a difference in the research
showing one being better than the other?
Obviously, the water fasting's more
extreme.
Is it more effective to go that extreme?
No. Um there's a We use the glucose
ketone index calculator, which we
published here.
Um that gives the patient Every patient
with cancer can then know how they
stand. So, it's a meter. You can buy it
on Amazon, Keto Mojo glucose ketone
index meter a meter that measures blood
sugar. It prick your finger like a
diabetic would.
You measure with a strip. You can
measure your blood sugar. You put it You
put the strip in the meter, reads them
sugar. Okay, squeeze your finger a
little bit more, put the ketone strip,
put that in the meter, it tells you what
your ketones are. You push the button
and you get a ratio of how much ketone
to to glucose is in the blood. And
normally, people would look at that on a
right after their lunch or dinner or
whatever, and you'd have a value of
about 50 or 60. Okay, to manage cancer,
you need a value of 2.0 or below.
Okay, people say, "Well, man, I don't
know if I can get that." They eat this
and go, "Can I eat that? Can I eat
this?" I don't know. Why don't you check
your GKI, your glucose ketone index, and
see whether you can eat that. And they
said, "Oh, no, it went up to 20." Well,
don't eat that. So, it's not that hard.
And then they they'll come and say, "Oh,
man, it's really really hard to to get
my blood sugars down and my ketones up."
And I said, "Well, I I said you want to
kill cancer cells?
What do you What What's your plan here?
It's not easy. Well, don't You know, I
don't want people to think I'll tell
you, it's a hell of a lot easier sitting
down in in in the
in the oncology thing and getting
infused with poison. You don't have to
do anything. You're just sitting in a
lounge chair and they just drain it into
your bloodstream. Doing metabolic
therapy
requires a big part a big
emphasis
effort on your part. The patient has to
play a major role in the management of
the disease, otherwise it's not going to
work.
So, uh when the patient can get down
into that low or that low GKI value,
then the patient becomes
uh
Now, the next step is use specific drugs
that work better against the glucose and
glutamine together. So, you got the diet
on the one side uh making you healthier,
putting pressure on the tumor cells, but
then you hit them with low doses of a
variety of other And some of that can be
low dose chemo, by the way. And then
you're just going to start hammering
these tumor cells out of existence. So,
uh and the degrade them slowly while you
continue to be healthy.
Uh none of this hair loss, vomiting, and
all this other stuff. The tumor cells
cannot survive in these harsh metabolic
environments. You're doing it by
lowering your sugar and you then you
take small doses of like repurposed
drugs and things like we already listed
some of these. More of them are becoming
recognized. So, um you don't You don't
need to spend a lot of money. Now, as I
said,
uh you don't need to suffer with a lot
of toxicity. Is it easy? No. If I had I
know what I'd have to do, but I'm Do you
think I'm going to be saying, "Oh, man,
I can't eat donuts and rice and bread?"
Okay, well, that might be the part of
your sacrifice. And what a lot of people
do, they dovetail it in with prayer.
Whatever religion they are, they pray
and that helps them
avoid bread. In In other words, it gives
them more motivation to to participate
in their own healing process. What we
found is that the human body has
incredible capacity to heal itself if
given the opportunity. So, when you give
your body the opportunity to heal, it
will heal. It's hard to heal when you're
being irradiated and treated with drugs
that are poisonous. It's hard for the
body to rally against that. So, um I
think we have to change this whole
paradigm by the way cancer is treated,
and we can get much better success than
what we have currently today. One point
I want to highlight there, the fact that
blood glucose is still going to be
elevated to a point. Even if we're
fasting, doing water fasting over a
longer period of time, we're still going
to maintain a relative level of blood
glucose,
which for me triggers in my mind
it's not like you're having rice or a
donut and spiking that blood glucose,
but you still have that baseline level
no matter what you're doing.
How is that not enough to facilitate
fuel for the cancer cells?
Yeah. So, it becomes It's a very It's a
It's a population dynamics issue. Okay.
When When you have a high enough level
of blood sugar from eating um
carbohydrates or whatever, uh the brain
is is satiated. Uh most of the other
cells in your body is satiated. You
already have a a massive amount of
excess glucose because you're eating
foods that produce glucose. So, if you
stop eating from foods that produce
glucose, your body now has to replace
the glucose with something else, and
they mobilize fats, and the fats go to
the liver, and the liver uh produces
ketone bodies. But, the liver will also
produce glucose through the process of
gluconeogenesis.
But, gluconeogenesis cannot make up the
need for how much glucose your brain
needs. So, there's going to be a
shortage. So, what's going to happen
then is your brain is going to take what
little glucose is available to do its
and then replace the rest of it with
ketone bodies. So, this deprives the
cells the other cells in your body of of
of glucose. And other cells in the body
now also increase their demand for this
glucose cuz glucose is a good fuel for a
lot of things. So, you can Now, the
tumor cells, which absolutely must have
that fuel, are now competing with all
other cells that also want the same
fuel, but they wouldn't have competed
with the tumor cells when the glucose
was so high. So, the tumor cells were
free to do what they want to do. You
lower the blood sugar. Now, these cells
are in direct competition with other
cells in the body, and eventually they
start to lose the fight. They They need
the glucose. These other guys can burn
ketones and glucose. These guys can't
burn the ketones. They can't burn fatty
acids. So, they're they're they're
linked to two fuels. One of them is
glucose, and the other is this
glutamine, which is an amino acid, which
is the most abundant amino acid in the
body. No diet can target the
availability of the glutamine. That's
why you have to come in with a little
bit of a drug that will push that
glutamine down, thereby starving these
tumor cells of the two key fuels that
they need. So, you need to know how to
play the normal cells off the tumor
cells. You need to know how to
reconstruct the energy
um
bioenergetic system in the body so that
the tumor cells are now in a fight for
their life, for their struggle, where
the rest of the body can transition off
to another fuel.
This is the way the strategy that that
we that we can use. So, the other thing
you have to realize, that no one denies,
is that all the tumor cells have
thousands of mutations. They all
Everybody knows that. They have
mutations because their energy is
inefficient. They perform these reactive
oxygen species, causing mutations in the
DNA. So, when you have a cells, all
these tumor cells full of genetic
mutations, and now you're taking the
whole body and putting it into a into an
energetic restricted state. Normal cells
evolved over millions of years to adapt
to these restricted states. They make
great efficiency at a small availability
of molecules that can be
respired in the environment. The tumor
cell has all these mutations. It traps
them. It It prevents them from making
rapid adaptations because the mutations
block all of the They have no metabolic
flexibility. So, that then puts them at
a massive competitive disadvantage when
they're up against the normal cells that
have this metabolic flexibility. So, you
put all that together, lack of metabolic
flexibility, restriction of the two
fuels that are absolutely essential for
their existence, and you target this
while you're transitioning over, and
these tumor cells are gradually
eliminated and degraded slowly, and the
and the
material used from these dead tumor
cells is now recycled into the normal
cells of the body. The body will turn
and eat the tumor cells as part of the
fuel when you have under these
unbelievable. It's It's When you
understand
When you understand the bioenergetics of
your body and what it's capable of
doing, you know how these tumor cells
can be blasted
very effectively by just using a few
strategies that is based on evolutionary
biology and understanding of the biology
of the tumor.
He talked about the genetic mutations
within the tumor and for anybody that
might be confused cuz early on in our
conversation we said that
that's the current paradigm that doctors
go by the genetic mutations.
Well, we're saying we're not denying
there are genetic mutations. It's the
fact that we're going more upstream
and saying that those are just a factor
that happens later on, not the actual
cause at the very top.
Yeah, they they're
completely correct. Um they collect and
the more the tumor is aggressive, the
more mutations they they collect. But
those mutations also block metabolic
adaptation. So as soon as you start
restricting the two fuels absolutely
essential for the growth of the tumor,
the viability of the tumor, those tumor
cells lack the ability to get energy
from oxygen.
That's the key. The tumor cell can get
cannot get energy from oxygen. It can
only get energy from what we call
substrate level phosphorylation. It's a
It's a It's a form of energy that
doesn't require oxygen, okay? So it's an
ancient pathway. All the cells that
existed on the planet before oxygen came
into the atmosphere used this same
energy mechanism, energy without oxygen.
This is very interesting because because
tumor cells, as I said, what Otto
Warburg did years ago with animals that
had tumors,
he would give the animal cyanide which
kills the animal immediately. But the
tumor cells aren't killed. The tumor
cells can grow in cyanide. They can grow
without oxygen. So that clearly tells
you these What are Wow, you mean to tell
me a tumor cell can grow in cyanide? I
said, "Yeah, we've we've done it." So
cyanide kills people instantly, but the
tumor cell is not killed by the cyanide.
Why is that? Because it's not using
oxygen. It's using ancient pathways to
get energy. What are those pathways?
Well, it's a fermentation mechanism.
Wow, what are
glycolysis in the cytoplasm,
glutaminolysis in the mitochondria. So
we know exactly what pathways these
tumor cells are using. And I said,
"Well, how do you know that?" Because we
we targeted those pathways. Kills the
tumors right away.
It's not It's not that complicated.
People Oh, wow, you so many cuz the
field is saying, "Okay, you got 10,000
mutations in there. Our precision
medicine is going to target one of those
mutations or a couple of them." That's
not going to work. It's going to Each
tumor cell is different constellation of
mutations. So it's it's definitely not
going to work and it doesn't work for
the majority of people. As a matter of
fact, some of those targeted mutations
turn on the body and blow out your
liver, blow out your kidneys. Um they
can kill you faster than the tumor can
kill you. If you have the same epitope
on a normal cell that you thought was
only on the tumor cell. So when you give
them this immunotherapy, it not only
will hit a few of those tumor cells with
that marker, but it also starts knocking
out your liver and kidney that have that
same mark. So
what we see is called hyperprogressive
disease. It's something you see in You
know,
when you see on TV at night all the
commercials for all these
cancer things and on the bottom it kill
you in 15 different ways.
[Laughter]
They make that real small, that part
real small. That should be the number
one part. This drug will kill you in 15
different ways, but you might be one of
the few ones that are lucky to survive.
It's a crazy world. It's crazy world,
man, but you got to live with it, you
know? Coming back to the dietary piece,
so
your research shows we either want to
adopt a ketogenic diet or go to water
fasting when it comes to fighting
cancer.
And we know what that's doing so far. We
talked about it. Cuts off the fuel
supply of the glucose to the cancer. My
question is
when we get into that state of ketosis
through either of those means
are the ketones themselves part of the
therapy? Are they attacking or causing
an environment that the cancer doesn't
like?
Yeah, that's a good point. We tried
that. Um you the cancer cells can grow
um in the as a key So we have As long as
we have glucose and glutamine there you
can put ketones in there, okay? You have
to get to really really high levels like
10 millimolar before the the ketones
might act as a toxic. And the body human
body it's hard to get up to 10
millimolar. So most people are in two to
four
and maybe if they're lucky one to three
up to five millimolar, maybe a little
higher.
Um the the role of the primary role of
the ketone bodies is to enhance the
energetic efficiency of normal cells in
the body. So the that's their primary
role. Also, by elevating ketones, it
allows the body to push blood sugars
down as low as you possibly can get.
Because you because you can even shoot
up insulin into a person who is in
therapeutic ketosis like like for
example um if you take a person and
shoot them up with a high dose of
insulin they they go unconscious. They
have epileptic seizure and possibly
could die. Uh because you removed all of
the sugar in the blood immediately, so
the brain has no energy and you go
unconscious. If you take those same
people and put them in therapeutic
ketosis like Drenick did, this Dr.
Drenick and and had their ketones
elevated to about four millimolar and
then shot them up with a high dose of
insulin nothing. There was no no effect
at all. Why? Because the ketones were
replacing the glucose as the fuel for
the brain. So as long as you can
transition, the brain can switch from
glucose to ketone bodies. The tumor cell
cannot switch from glucose to ketone
bodies. Why? Because you need a good
mitochondria. Mitochondria is the
organelle that gets energy from oxygen.
And that organelle is busted,
inefficient and broken. Oxidative
phosphorylation part of that organelle
is broken. So they can't use ketones or
fatty acids because you can't you need a
good healthy mitochondria to use those.
So once you know the biology of the
cancer cell and the biology of the
normal cells, you just play one group of
cells off the other in the correct
metabolic environment and the tumor
cells lose every time.
When it comes to that experiment you
talked about where somebody's in ketosis
and they're able to use insulin to
really bring that glucose down
was that just a thought experiment or is
that actually been done? And if so, is
that something that can be therapeutic
to even cut off that fuel supply even
more to the cancer cells? It might be.
Um I have the paper of Drenick. Look it
up, you know, it's I
I couldn't believe it. He took all these
really obese people, massively obese and
put them on a water only fast for 21
days.
Uh brought their blood sugars down and
their and their ketones up and then shot
them up with insulin bringing the blood
sugar down to 0.5 millimolar, 9
milligrams per deciliter. That's death
for anybody that doesn't is that's not
in ketosis. Those people are fine. They
didn't even have any cognitive changes
at all. So it was absolutely proven that
you can do this. You can push blood
blood As long as you are in ketosis,
you're protected against the effects of
low hypoglycemia. You go to the
hospitals and you say, "Oh, you got to
get your cancer patients down to about
55 to 65 milligram." Oh, no, that's
going to kill them. You don't know about
the keto You don't know how to do this?
I mean, you guys are medical
professionals. You should know how to
play these organs and these systems off
each other to be successful in the
treatment of the disease. So getting
back to your question about can insulin
potentiation therapy be one of the
procedures that could use? You know, I
don't know I know our some of our
colleagues in Istanbul use it. Some
people have
said they've gotten really good results
as the result of that, but you got to
make sure your patients are in
therapeutic ketosis, nutritional ketosis
before you would want to mess around
with that. Also, you've got to realize
that this is not a long-term situation.
They They showed how long does it How
long does the patient survive in this
very very low glucose condition using
insulin and and and And you're talking
about, you know, several hours. Uh
you're not talking about several days.
You In order to kill the cancer cells,
you you really need to apply the
pressure constantly over a significant
period of time where they're gradually
degraded and gradually broken down and
and and and gradually managed. Insulin
will kill a lot of cells maybe right off
the bat, but it's not going to be um
it's not going to be I I don't think it
it it's it might be used occasionally a
little bit of a pulse, but I'm not going
to bank using it. And also, you got to
be careful if your patients aren't in
ketosis when you do that, you could run
the risk of harm. Um you know, there's a
lot of things one has to be cognizant of
um before you would want to do that. But
the answer to your question is yeah, you
can lower blood sugar down to almost
zero uh with an insulin potentiation
therapy while the patient is in ketosis,
not when the patient is not in ketosis.
You would never ever do something like
that. The other potential challenge I
can see with using that insulin with a
cancer patient is the fact that we know
that's a growth hormone and I'm curious
how, you know, that might be able to
affect the growth of cancer.
Well, as I said, you can't grow without
energy. Energy is the key. Uh you have
two things. You have metabolites for
growth, but you also have the energy.
You can have all the metabolites in the
world, but you don't have the energy to
use them. You're going to die. So
everything comes back to energy. So, you
have to have two things to grow cancer
cells. You have to have energy and you
have to have metabolites. So, you have
the metabolites and the energy and
you'll be able to grow these cells. So,
both the glucose and the glutamine not
only provide the energy together, they
also provide the metabolites. The
nitrogen from glutamine is necessary for
DNA and RNA synthesis and the synthesis
of all amino acids. The carbons from
glucose are absolutely essential for
running the pentose phosphate pathway
and providing the raw material for the
synthesis of proteins, lipids, and
nucleic acids. So, you put all those the
carbons from those two fuels are
absolutely essential for the growth of
those tumor cells. They can't use
anything else in any sufficient
capability. And in order to grow an
inefficient a beast a growing tumor
cell, which is you highly energetically
inefficient, you have to have logistics.
The supply of the fuels used for their
fermentation mechanism have to be
present in the environment in sufficient
quantities to drive the beast because
because you need a lot of fuel that is
inefficient, okay? So, if that's the
key, you have two fuels that are
necessary, that are abundant in the
microenvironment, and the cancer cell
will be able to grow and be resistant to
almost everything you throw at it. But
if you take away those two fuels and
clean up the the environment, these
cells now become extremely vulnerable
for killing and management without
toxicity.
Coming back to my question earlier about
the ketones and if they have a
therapeutic role on this,
it gets me thinking about exogenous
ketones. And I know you mentioned there
it would have to be this really high
level of ketones in the body before they
would be toxic to cancer.
I'm curious, has there been any research
or testing done
of using this exogenous ketone
ketones Yeah. as a way of, you know, an
adjunct to therapy? Yeah, uh Dom
D'Agostino, my friend from University of
South Florida, is developing these
ketone uh
supplements that you could possibly use.
And what we're finding is that if you do
get yourself into a state of therapeutic
ketosis
where
um your ketone levels are about 3 to 4
millimolar and your blood sugar level is
maybe 50 or 60 milligrams per deciliter,
when you take the
ketone supplements, your blood sugar can
be pushed to even a lower gray degree
and uh your ketones can be even elevated
to a to a higher level. Uh again,
putting more pressure on the tumor
cells. Um
but we haven't worked yet that into a um
a therapeutic strategy.
It's it's based on dosage, timing, and
scheduling.
And in order to fully fully uh take
advantage of exogenous ketones, we we
need to follow more uh patients
uh uh and measure their blood sugar and
ketones while we are monitoring their
tumor non-invasively.
Uh either by PET PET analysis or by MRI
or CAT scan or some of these
non-invasive ways. Uh
monitoring if there's a linkage between
visual visible shrinkage of the tumor
linked to uh levels of blood sugar and
ketones uh in the patient. So, we can
then get more quantitative information
with respect to that. And that as far as
I know hasn't been done yet. You know,
right now we're just in the process of
of how long can we keep a patient alive
with a high quality of life um
based on our concepts, but it's going to
take uh more clinical uh and preclinical
research
uh to get the exact answer to your
question.
So, we've talked about the dietary piece
quite a bit now through the glucose half
of the equation.
When it comes to glutamine,
let's talk about the different drug
options there
and the physiology of how that
stops that fuel from being used by the
cancer.
Yeah, well, um
there's several ways. Glutamine
is the most abundant amino acid in the
body um
higher than any other amino acid in the
bloodstream. It's an absolutely They
call it a non-essential amino acid
because you can synthesize it from
glucose.
Uh it's essential for neurotransmission
in the brain, the glutamine glutamate
cycle. So, it's a very crucial uh
um metabolite amino acid in in the brain
for keeping our neurons firing in a in a
correct way.
Um it's an absolutely essential
metabolite for cells of our immune
system uh like macrophages, T cells, and
B cells. Cells of our immune system
uh require uh a lot of glutamine. And of
course, in our gut uh our gut the health
of our guts uh
crypt cells and all these kinds of cells
in our intestines
uh they're also big users of of the
glutamine. So, when you say, "Okay, um
we're going to try to target cancer
cells also." The metastatic cancer cell
the metastatic cancer cell is a big uh
consumer of glutamine uh because the
metastatic cell, as we and others have
shown, is actually derived from uh an
immune cell in our body called the
macrophage. It's a fusion hybridization
kind of a thing. So, um they spread
through the body, but they also sit next
to immune cells, they suppress immune
cells, but they're also consuming
glutamine.
So, how do we go after the glutamine in
the cancer cell without harming the the
the the normal cells that also need the
glutamine? This is why we use the press
uh the pulse strategy. Okay. So, we
press the whole body uh of glucose uh
raising ketones, lowering glucose
as a constant press uh on the cancer
cells. So, they become less aggressive,
more indolent, less inflamed. And then
we take low doses of glutamine
inhibitors that can inhibit any part of
the glutaminolysis pathway coming from
the bringing into glutamine uh
metabolizing it to glutamate,
metabolizing it to alpha-ketoglutarate,
to succinyl-CoA, to succinate. There's a
pathway. And this is the pathway by
which the cancer cells use to get their
energy.
So, we can hit that pathway at any one
of these steps, but we have to do it in
a very strategic way as to not harm
normal cells that need that same
pathway. So, that's why we pulse small
doses of this as we keep we we got the
cancer cells in a metabolic chokehold,
but we're not ready yet we're not ready
to kill them yet, but we got to hit them
with a little pulse and eventually
they'll expire. But you got to do it in
such a way as to not harm. This is why
you need a fundamental understanding of
biology.
You need to understand the biology of
all the key players that are participat-
participatory in the eventual management
of the disease. So, you can't go in
there like a bull in a china shop and
just, you know, pour chemicals and
poisons and radiation and all this kind
of crazy You can get rid of some
cancer like that for sure. But you
really can do it in a hell of a lot
easier way, more strategic and less
toxic if you understand how to play
these pathways off of each other in the
different kinds of cells that are in the
tumor microenvironment. And eventually
you degrade the tumors down to a point
where they become assimilated and used
for fuel by the rest of the cells. So,
you're absolutely right. You can't throw
a whole bunch of glutamine targeting
drugs. Sure you're going to kill some
cancer cells, but then you're going to
paralyze your immune system because once
you kill a bunch of cancer cells, who's
going to come in and pick up the dead
bodies of the cancer cells? You got a
whole bunch of corpse dead corpses of
cells where that tumor used to be. And
if you don't get rid of them, bacteria
can get in there and cause some
infection. You got another problem on
your hands. So, you got to be able to do
this in a logical strategic way to get
rid of the tumor cells. I mean, all of
this becomes extremely uh comprehensible
uh when you understand the biology of
the key players that are that are
participatory in the growth of this uh
malignancy. So, again, um you know, it's
just that we've been doing this for a
long time. We study the biology of all
the different participants in the
microenvironment. We study who's who's
doing what in these cancer cells, why
they're spreading, how can they not how
do we kill them? And uh and you know,
we're seeing success in people and in
dogs, you know, we're starting to see
success in our strategy and it's just a
matter of polishing it up and perfecting
it to get a real a real strategic way of
dealing with this problem.
So, when it comes to order of treatment,
correct me if I'm wrong, but it's to get
into ketogenic a ketogenic state before
you start pulsing the DON.
Mhm. Yes. Yes. Because because we showed
in our publications that we could get
three times more uh glutamine targeting
drug uh through the blood-brain barrier
onto target when the drug was admitted
would be administered under therapeutic
ketosis. So, if you try to administer
the drug in a in a high carbohydrate
diet American American standard diet or
whatever, you only get a little bit of
drug on target. Therefore, you have to
use a lot more of the drug. And when you
use a lot more of the drug, you you risk
the toxicity issues that can come with
the use of any drug given in in
excessive amounts. So, what you want to
do is is you want to make that drug
super powerful in lowest doses possible.
And that is what the the therapeutic
ketosis does. It allows small molecules
to come right on target, low dose,
massively more powerful than they would
have been if they were not used. This is
another thing.
You got to understand the biology of the
problem
to make your success much greater than
it would have been.
Again, nobody what I'm talking to you
about, almost nobody in the field knows
anything that I'm saying here.
And how do I know that? Because they're
not using these techniques in their in
their clinics. If they if they
understood what I'm saying, they would
be transitioning over to this
immediately. But they're not. Why? Oh, I
never heard of this before. Oh, I didn't
know about You go ask them. Oh, I didn't
know that. No, there's no evidence to
support. Did you read the paper? No, I
didn't read the paper. Then how do you
know there's no evidence to support
that? You go right down the list. You
know, and you have to give these guys a
break, too. These oncologists, they were
never trained to look at bio cancer this
way. They're memorizing all kinds of
stuff, you know, knowing how to use
chemicals and radiation, so you don't
kill your your poor patient. They're not
looking at the biological strategies for
knowing how to kill cancer cells without
toxicity. They were never trained in the
medical schools to know how to use diets
and drugs combos of diets and drugs to
to manage these things. So so it's it's
a lack of knowledge, lack of training,
uh no motivation. I mean, you put it all
together and you and and you don't get
what I'm telling you. You don't get that
applied in the clinic. One of the big
things that jumps out to me, too, as you
talk about doctors, is the fact that
even if, say, they tune into an
interview like this and become aware or
read your book,
they have the legal ramifications
if they try something alternative like
this. So,
the way I understand it, at least, and
I'm no lawyer, is that they're sort of
handcuffed in a way to follow a certain
protocol
or the college is going to crack down on
them. So,
that's another whole layer to this.
That's another whole layer. That's what
I'm talking about. No flexibility in the
standard of care.
The standard of care was never written
in granite. It's only supposed to be
used because
based on best medical practices and
outcome, it should be used until
something better comes along.
Something better is here. But why now
can you not use it? Then you have to
say, "Oh, there's something other than
patient outcome that must be underlying
the lack of ability to use this new
approach to managing cancer." So, that
becomes a different level of
investigation. You know, why why they
don't want to do this. Uh what what are
the real reasons for not wanting to do
this? And I told you at the beginning,
there's a number of reasons why people
can't do that. Um yeah, the hospital
administrators, um you know, you have to
look at bottom lines and budgets and all
this kind of stuff. If you got to bring
in a
a treatment protocol that's not going to
generate the revenue that you got from
something else, then we got we got to
reevaluate whether we want to do that or
not.
Uh people say, "Well, are you sure about
that?" Go ahead.
Go find out why you can't use metabolic
therapy as a stand-alone next to
Oh, no, can't do that. Why? Doesn't go
through the institutional review board.
We have a a group of
physicians on institutional review
boards that have to make the decision.
They'll allow metabolic therapy under
certain cases as long as it's done
concurrently with the standard of care.
The standard of care is your problem.
So, you got to get rid of the standard.
It's not working. The standard of care
for brain cancer, at least for brain
glioblastoma, is not working. It's not
working for advanced lung cancer. It's
not working for advanced breast cancer.
It's not working for
a systemic metastatic cancer. The
standards of care are not working, and
that's what's killing the majority
allowing these poor people to be dead.
So, when are we going to shift the
standard of care away from these toxic
strategies not based on the underlying
biology of the disease? That's a
question people have to ask themselves.
Right? Well, this, like you said, ties
back to what we were talking about
earlier, the fact that
therapies like you're talking about not
only have to overcome the cancer, but
also the conventional treatment that has
to be stacked on top of it. So, it's
we're coming full circle here. Yes,
you're coming full circle. And the
biggest thing they always say is
ketogenic diet safe. Is ketogenic
metabolic is metabolic therapy safe?
They're always worrying about the safety
issue. Are you kidding me? You're
telling me that a calorie restricted
ketogenic diet is more harmful to the
body than high-dose radiation and chemo?
They should be asking whether radiation
and chemo is safe, not whether
whether a a metabolic diet is safe. I
mean, it's completely upside down,
right? I mean, it makes no sense.
Um oh, is ketogenic diet We have
thousands of little kids using ketogenic
diet therapy for managing seizures,
right? Thousands of kids all over the
world using it to manage epileptic
seizures. And now we try it on a cancer
Oh, no, we got to be careful. It might
not be safe for the cancer patient
because they they relative to what?
Radiation and chemo? I mean, look let's
see the the absurdity of some of these
things is just beyond my comprehension.
Well, speaking of safety, that gets me
thinking about diet where
we've talked about to this point where
we're cutting things out, we're getting
into ketosis, and then we're adding this
drug in, which, again, triggers in my
mind
how do we make this even less invasive
and potentially safer? And that's
instead of using the Dawn to have a food
or an a substance extracted from food
that could do the same thing. So,
anything in that realm that you've
discovered or anything promising where
you could see
a food or an extract from food taking
the place of the drug? Yeah, well, I for
glutamine, not yet.
Um for glutamine, not yet. Now, we have
a paper
under review
uh with a dog um that has a a malig- a
malignant
mast cell tumor on its face.
And I've in some of my um lectures, I've
shown pictures of that dog.
Um that was kind of a surprising case
uh
because um the the the owner, the what
they call pet parent, uh brought the dog
into the um uh the vet clinic, and they
just they discovered under its lip it
had a it had a a mast cell tumor. They
did a biopsy on it,
and um it was a mast cell tumor. So, if
you look in the in the literature uh on
mast cell tumors in dogs, they when they
do genomic screens, they find a lot of
all kinds of mutations in the cells in
mast cell tumor. So, it's like just
about all the other kinds of tumors. You
see all kinds of all kinds of mutations.
So, um they wanted to give the the the
recommendation was chemo um and
radiation like, you know, these are the
standard things that they would do. Uh
the pet parent said no. They didn't want
to do any of that because the outcome uh
would not always be guaranteed uh and
their pet would be uh injured. It would
be very sick. They they said this dog
would be very sick and may not your
outcome may not be a cure. So, she said,
"Well, I don't want to do that. I'm just
going to figure out on my own." So, she
went back, the owner. In fact, all this
is written in the paper that hopefully
will be it's under review right now, but
some of the reviews are pretty good. So,
I anticipate that it'll be out at some
point. Um
She switched the dog to a raw vegetable
diet, okay?
So, uh
uh for a year, a little over a year, and
the tumor grew much bigger,
okay, on this raw vegetable diet. So,
clearly the raw vegetable diet was not
working.
Um and the tumor became very noticeable
and large and started to uh invade local
local area, meaning that it is
malignant. In fact, it was malignant by
invading local tissue when it was very
when it was first diagnosed as a smaller
growth, and then the raw vegetable diet
made it much bigger.
Um then she read our work and uh
recognized that the dog is a descendant
of the wolf. Uh all dogs are derived
from the wolf. Uh what does the wolf
eat? The wolf eats raw meat. Uh the wolf
can eat anything but vegetables. So, uh
they took the all the vegetables away
from the dog um and gave the dog um raw
chicken uh
uh
fish oil, a raw egg, and some coconut
oil. Uh small amounts, teaspoon,
tablespoon levels, and the the dog uh
was calorie restricted. It lost about
about 8 or 10% of its body weight. And
within uh 3 months, this big-ass tumor
was like gone.
Um
which which was remarkable. And we used
no drugs. There was no there was no uh
extra drugs used. It was purely diet
alone that did this. And people are
asking, "Well, if you're talking about
the glutamine, how's it possible that
this big tumor could be resolved in a
relatively short period of time without
additional drugs?" Um and the answer is,
you know, we don't really know. Uh all
we know is that the tumor was growing
rapidly and big, and the rapid change in
diet caused it to resolve completely,
and the dog, which was a pit bull, uh
died at 15 years of age from heart
failure. And and the tumor never never
returned. The tumor was eliminated in
2015, and the dog lived to 2019.
So, clearly it was cured of its cancer.
Um the question is, how do you explain
uh radical remission of this tumor
without using the drugs that we think
would be more successful?
And the answer is we're not really 100%
sure, but it comes back to the fact that
those mast cells tumor cells are loaded
with mutations, which, as I said, block
uh metabolic adaptation. So, the tumor
cells with their mutations can't could
not uh
redirect their metabolism when the sugar
when the when the body was asked to be
under a more restrictive metabolic
state. Those cells were unable,
obviously, were unable to adjust, and
that's where these collection of
mutations in the tumor cells could be
our ally when we start to put the whole
body under a restrictive state. Dogs
have an incredibly capable adaptation to
physiological stress. And if you have a
cell loaded with mutations, that cell
will not have those cap- capacities and
will be eliminated for fuel for the rest
of the body. Um so, this is uh what we
call autolytic cannibalism. Can it
happen in people? Probably for some
kinds of tumors. Will it happen for a
glioblastoma? I don't think so. But
maybe it could. We don't know. But if if
it were me and I were the one to have
colon cancer, bladder cancer, or
whatever, I would certainly use some of
the very non-toxic drugs that I know
would push the diet to make it a little
bit more powerful.
I'm not going to risk my life knowing
that I have drugs available that I can
use that are not so toxic and that could
push these cancer cells out of existence
a little faster. Is it possible that I
could go on a 30-day water only fast,
which people do, and eliminate the
cancer? Yes, it's possible. I I have
evidence from clinical clinicians who
have emailed me and told me that their
cancers were completely dissolved after
25 days of water several water only
fasts like this. Well, this is really
tough. I think most American most people
would probably figure out can I get that
done a little bit easier? Do you have a
drug that might be able to push it a
little bit faster? And the answer is
yes. People want to try a 21-day water
only fast three times a year
to get rid of their cancer. I'm not
going to stop them. I I I I've seen it
work. But it's not but if you told the
cancer patient that, they'd think you
were crazy.
Even oncologists think you're crazy to
recommend something like that. But it
works. But I wouldn't say it's something
that everybody is going to jump on,
especially if they have an opportunity
to lessen lessen the stress. People
don't People don't People go, "Oh,
Jesus." But but you can do all these
things. Yeah, they work. I mean probably
work on some people. Worked on Guy
Tenenbaum. He's on the web. He's he he
did all these water only fasts. He got
rid of his advanced prostate cancer. So,
I'm not saying that's going to work for
everybody, but I would certainly want to
integrate diet with drugs where I know I
have some handle on the whole thing. And
and that would to me would be a more
logical way to go about it. That's
exactly where I was going. I'm glad you
covered that though. To compare water
fasting versus the treatment protocol
we've been talking about. Yeah. I mean
sure, they they can work. I'm not going
to cuz I have hard evidence that it does
work. But it's not something a lot of
people are going to jump on right away.
So, we've gone into the details of what
your treatment protocol would look like
with the diet or the fasting and the
the pulsing of the drug, the DON.
I'm curious now, how long obviously it's
going to depend on the type of cancer
and and how invasive it is and how long
it's been there and a lot of different
factors.
But if somebody is trying a protocol
like this,
how long typically do they need to do
something like this to get to a point
when they can
you know,
go to a diet and lifestyle to manage the
cancer at that point versus all these
other things?
Yeah. No, it's hard. It's a good
question. I I I don't know. Um
Well, I mean, what are your choices?
I mean, what are your choices?
Uh
Well, someone could say, "Listen, I
don't want to do that. I don't want to
do that for the rest of my life." And
the answer is you might not have to do
that, but we can't be 100% sure uh
about that. Let me give you Let me give
you an example from a couple of one case
published Pablo Kelly
and the other case
from an individual that that I know um
uh from Norway.
And he's he did a big film on this and
it's all in Norwegian.
Um
Terje
from Norway. And he We have two examples
of what the question exactly to address
address your question. Pablo
um took no radiation, no chemo, no
steroids.
Uh
his tumor continued to grow for 3 years
slowly slowly. He was in a carnivore
kind of keto.
Uh mostly meats and stuff. Um eventually
it grew to the point where he had to
have it debulked, cut out. Cuz we all
looked and said it's not it's not be
This diet alone without drug is not
causing your tumor to regress
completely. So, he had it debulked.
First, they said it was a non
operable tumor. It was inoperable. So,
you wouldn't be able to get it all out.
Then after 3 years of ketogenic
metabolic therapy, they looked at it on
a CAT scan MRI says, "Oh, this thing
might be
debulked more completely than it was 3
years earlier." So, he said, "Okay." So,
he gets the tumor out. And they the the
neurosurgeon the the surgeon said, "We
think we got most of it." "Oh, okay."
So, Pablo
thinks he's out of the woods.
Um goes back not to the same kind of He
was keeping his glucose ketone index
pretty good around 2.0 or below. After
the debulking surgery, they said, "Oh,
it looks like we got a lot of the tumor
out." So, he started to transition back
to a more carbohydrate kind of diet. And
then the next MRI about I don't know, 6
or 8 months later showed growth
um of the tumor. So, put the fear of God
in him.
And he went right back onto a more
restricted diet. And you could see the
damn tumor the images going down. Now,
after another 3 years, the tumor was
continued to grow and grow and grow very
slowly and debulked. So, he said two
debulking surgeries.
Um he's out over 8 years of survival.
He's got married, has two children. He
would have not had any of that had he
had he done the the standard of care up
front. So, the question is will he have
to use the rest of his life? And he So
far, he hasn't taken DON or embendazole
or some of the other drugs that we know
can work on this. He's very comfortable
the way he's doing.
The other The other fellow from um had
melanoma uh from Norway. And he could
actually see the lesions on his leg get
bigger the more the more carbs he took
in. And when he stopped the carbs, he
could actually see the lesions going
down. I mean, it was like he had the
pictures of going up and going down.
It's unbelievable. So, he said, "Listen,
if I want that tumor out of my body, I
got to stop taking these carbohydrates."
So, he switched over his diet to meats
and all kinds of things, but very very
low in carbohydrates. And he's he's
fine. I mean, he's been out years now.
And
he he knows that this may come back, but
he just prefers to change his diet and
lifestyle so it doesn't come back.
And that's the individual choice that
people are going to have to make. Does
that mean you have to drop out of
society just so you don't have your
tumor grow? No, it doesn't. I mean, he's
perfectly interactive with all kinds of
people and
conventions and and and lectures and all
kinds of stuff. So, but I think you
really probably have to really restrict
uh the kinds of foods that make your
blood sugar go up.
Um I think that's the safest way. But
you're rolling the dice. And and I have
no idea whether someone who has managed
their cancer for several years without a
recurrence, they really feel good about
their life, their health, and then all
of a sudden they they want to go back
and enter into
a diet that has a lot of carbs in it
most of the time.
And I don't know
uh what we can say about. We haven't had
enough
examples and publications to show Let's
take two groups of people. One's
metabolically managed doing really
really well. Another group that was
metabolic managed really really well.
Let's keep these guys on their same diet
and lifestyle. And let's let these guys
return to the way they were before they
had cancer. And then compare and
contrast the two groups. Who's going to
do a trial like that?
You know, think about it.
You want to do it. The drug when you
were talking about Pablo's case, I
wasn't sure if he had any of the drug.
Did he have any DON early on in his
treatment?
No. Okay. In in the second case, any DON
in there at all or no?
No. No. So, um we only know DON works
really well because we have preclinical
studies to show that it does. And it
works a hell of a lot better on the
metastatic kind of cell than it does on
the stem cells. Not to say that it
doesn't work on cancer stem cells. But
you know, we're building these cocktails
all the time, diet drug cocktails. And
as I said, the two fuels are glucose and
glutamine. So, the diet drug cocktail is
designed to keep the rest of the cells
healthy while you strategize on how to
shut down glucose and glutamine. So,
some tumors are more glucose dependent
than glutamine dependent. And some
tumors appear to be more glutamine
dependent than glucose dependent. But
that doesn't mean they use they're
restricted to one fuel versus the other.
It's just that their proportionality of
using the two fuels can differ. So, our
our viewpoint is what's the best therapy
that will eliminate those two fuels
simultaneously.
Uh and then and then if we find out
there's still some level of growth cuz
don't forget as I said, there's many
steps in that glutaminolysis pathway
that could be targeted
with some drugs. And we're still
learning about that. So, I mean, believe
me, this is not a done deal. Uh we we've
just opened the door into a world of new
approaches for managing cancer. Uh and
in the future, we'll be able to build
much better diet drug cocktails to take
care of all of these outlier cells and
all of these kinds of things. We're just
telling you that the the the framework
uh by which the strategy will eventually
be built on this press pulse concept. Uh
but the physicians clinics guys these
guys going to be the ones perfecting all
this stuff when they see the outcome in
their treated patients. So, it's like
anything. You're going to learn diet
doses, timing, and scheduling for
various types of people, their body
weights, sex, their age, all these kinds
of things must be brought into
consideration. How many other uh
diseases do they have besides cancer? I
mean, this is another thing. We see
patients come into the clinic that they
have parasite infections, their blood
work looks like hell. I mean, they're
all off the metabolic in a many
different type two diabetes, high blood
pressure, hypertension. They have all
kinds of things. All that stuff has to
be brought back into a semi-normal
state. And then you strategically use
low doses of drugs to target and kill
the tumor cells while not putting the
patient at a metabolic balance. So
again, you really have to be the artisan
of the understanding of the human body
and how it works
and how best you can fit that patient
with the with the with the therapy. So
when it comes to published research and
it comes to drugs like Dawn and other
drugs in that family,
is that only been looking at animal
models to this point?
Well,
they No, there there are clinical trials
on some of these drugs that are going on
right now. The problem with these trials
is no one is combining the drug with the
metabolic therapy. So they want to see
if a glutamine Yes, glutamine targeting
drug has been used in the past. Was it a
blockbuster? No, it was not a
blockbuster. Does it become more
powerful when you put it with the
ketogenic? Absolutely.
So but they don't want to do that.
Because they want to get
the They're looking for
Don't forget the Food and Drug
Administration says if you can your
patients can live an extra two months,
we'll we'll give you approval on that
drug. I mean, we don't want extra two
months. We want years of of So but they
will not do the trial with the ketogenic
diet because I was told by several drunk
guys, we won't know if it's the
ketogenic diet or the drug that's making
the difference. We got to know if it's
the drug. I said, "What about the
patient?"
It's got to be We got It's not the
patient. It's the revenue generation
from the drug they make. So again,
what's your what's your strategy? Is it
keeping How long can you keep your
patient alive or is it
Is it how how are you going to be able
to make this drug a blockbuster? None of
these drugs are ever going to be
blockbuster. I can tell you that right
now. The only way you're going to get
real powerful therapeutic benefit is you
got to know how to use that drug with
the appropriate diet to get the full
power of what you're doing. And so far
nobody wants to do that.
Given the nature of this conversation,
it's going to bring a lot of people to
it who have cancer and probably a lot of
people who
are at a point in their journey where
they don't feel like they have a lot of
different options and they might be far
along their cancer,
you know, journey.
Stage four being, you know, one extreme.
Or people that have other people in
their lives that are dealing with cancer
and and are looking for alternatives. So
where I'm going with all this, it sounds
like this is all very new and there's
not a lot of areas to turn for treatment
of the type we're talking about today.
There's a lot of roadblocks in people's
way. So
if it was you or somebody that you know
in your family that came to you and
said,
"Dr. Seyfried,
I want to try this." Yeah. Where do they
go these days while this is so new and
there's not a lot of people doing it? I
know. Well,
there's some small clinics that are
starting to dabble in this stuff. But as
like you said at the beginning, you
know, you could be shut down because
you're not following standard of care
for for political reasons. Has nothing
to do with the the clinical.
They're shutting it down because they
don't understand it. They don't know
about it. But because you're not
following protocol, you mean you these
As you said, some of these poor guys
could lose their license for doing it.
You will not see
metabolic
therapy discussed in any degree at the
top medical schools.
You got to deal deal with the They never
heard of auto Many of them never heard
of Otto Warburg. Many of them never
heard of what I'm talking about. So you
have that wall
of
of interference. Yeah, it's a problem.
Okay, so how do we
how do we break How do we get the word
You got to train physicians to know how
to use the strategy, the technology. You
got to They have to be educated.
They can be This is not
insurmountable.
Some of the
the actual into the
the nitty-gritty biochemical pathways
supporting what I am saying
does take a lot of in-depth knowledge
and research. There's no question about
it. I'm just able to take it out of the
the molecular mud and bring it into a
comprehensible strategy. But I'm in the
mud all the time. I'm trying to clean up
what we know and how to improve what we
know. But we are already far enough
along in case reports and in preclinical
outcome to know this is the path
forward. We already know that. So if we
know that,
why are we not going in that direction?
Because there is all these other issues.
One of the biggest ones is revenue
generation. How do we How do we keep
everybody's books balanced?
It's okay if I can bring in a new
strategy to replace standard of care,
but standard of care generates a lot of
revenue. So how can we use metabolic
therapy? Who has the business model?
What entrepreneur is going to step
forward with a business model? Because
everybody's going to be happy if I can
earn as much money doing metabolic
therapy as I would doing radiation and
chemo. But right now that hasn't
happened. We We're still looking for the
entrepreneurs to figure out how to do
this because I think the people want it.
The cancer patients want it. The problem
is we have this revenue issue that we
have to get through and I'm not that
kind of a guy. I don't deal with trying
to figure out that kind of solve that
problem. My problem My My goal is to
show that this this will be the future
of cancer. It's just that we have to put
the other parts of the puzzle together
to make it that way. We have to have set
We can set up clinics. We can All the
top medical schools could be doing this
right now with a little bit of six-month
training program
knowing knowing how classes and
re-education and research. But who's
going to make the money on this? Right?
Where the money Where is the money going
to come from? I can manage your cancer
without toxicity on the cheap. Great.
Okay. How is that going to help our
industry?
I don't know. Somebody's going to have
to figure that out. But it's going to
happen. You can You can delay it only
for so long because the more and more
people that are using this and the more
and more people are surviving a hell of
a lot longer they would have been if
they had gone to standard of care is
eventually going to be a grassfire and
people say, "I want this." You're going
to have to adapt in some way because we
want it. And we want it Why? What do you
think? Because we understand the
biology. We're actually targeting the
very essence what those cells need to
survive without the toxicity. And and we
can do it absolutely. We already have
the drugs. We already have the know-how.
We just We just don't have the
motivation to do it. And and that's
something that I can't I can't address.
For somebody who is desperate enough and
and determined enough
and is tuning in right now, are there
clinics out of country? Is there stuff
overseas people can look to down in
Mexico?
If you can answer that, fair enough, but
I just have to push you on it to give
people something that have tuned into
this point and feel like
I'm desperate. And the other factor here
is time, especially for people that, you
know, might be more towards the end
stages of cancer. They don't have a lot
of time. So I just feel for people and I
want them to have something practical
they can grab onto at the end of this.
You
You feel for people.
Think about how I how I feel for these
folks. I mean, they're coming to me. I
get some letters of people that are in
the end stages of their disease and I
can't believe that they could still be
alive after what they have gone through
and and up to the point when they're
they're they're desperate. They're at
their end of their their their their
string here. They're going to hospice
for crying out loud. And now they're
coming to say, "Can metabolic therapy be
helpful to me?" And the answer is I
don't know.
I'm not saying I I can't tell people,
"Oh yeah, we have the panacea for your
problem." No, I don't. I mean,
the issue here is that we have a plan
strategy to manage cancer and it's done
differently than what the than what they
do in the in the major medical centers.
So it's based on a completely different
underlying theory of what the disease
is.
And again, I always say if you catch the
disease early, you can you can
potentially cure it. Yeah,
that's true for metabolic therapy as
well as it would be for standard of care
therapy. But
as you mentioned, Jesse, you now have to
take
Now have to use metabolic therapy to not
only try to kill the remaining tumor
cells or what's ever growing, but now
try to
correct all of that massive damage that
was done to your body by toxic poisons
and radiation. Or immunotherapy or or
all this stuff. So you're asking a new
approach to not only solve the original
problem, but to create fix the mess that
you already went through in trying to
use those failed procedures to manage
your disease. So this is a real tough
thing to expect on an emerging therapy
to try to Now that doesn't mean those
four those folks can't benefit from
this. I have seen
the paper we published on the woman with
breast cancer out of the clinic in in
Istanbul. She was from She was from
Ohio.
Advanced triple negative breast cancer
to the brain, which is really bad. Liver
and brain when you get your cancer
spreading to your other organs and
especially to the brain. It's usually
lights out. And and they said there's no
more we can do. Well, that that woman
went to the clinic and she was in the
emergency room for quite a while. She
was near death, but they fixed her up,
got her back and she had to go through
this metabolic therapy for for a couple
three months. And eventually she
returned back to the United States and
is really good. I mean, I I these
anecdotal things sound crazy, but but we
have her doing doing really really well.
We have evidence what her tumor was, how
much it metastasized, how bad it was,
and now she's alive, and she's and she's
looking pretty good. And that's why I
think you have to look at the the
survivors in the um
uh
the movie
Cancer Revolution
where Maggie and Brad Jones have
interviewed
uh these cancer terminal so-called
terminal cancer patients who have
rallied. I I think I think the issue is
is that how how healthy is the Some of
these people say, you know, I've been
through everything and they tell me I
only have 6 months left. How do you feel
now? Well, I actually feel pretty good.
Well, if that's the case, you may be
able to adjust to metabolic therapy. But
I, you know, when you somebody's calling
you from hospice and they're saying,
"Can you help me?" You know, it's really
hard. I hate to say it, but it's it's
it's hard. So uh and it's hard for
anything. They wouldn't be in hospice if
something something worked in the first
place.
So um
yeah, so it's a judgment call, and you
have to have a team of physicians that
have to make those judgments, work with
the patient, with the family, but at
least provide them with options and
opportunities that they presently might
not have. It's always a hard thing to
say, "Well, we've done everything.
There's no more we can do." I mean,
that's the that's a terrible thing to
sell tell somebody, especially after you
threw the kitchen sink at them, you
know, spent all this money and all this
crazy stuff and that that doesn't work.
I mean, this is tragic. This is tragic.
This whole cancer thing is just a
massive tragedy. The human human
humanity a tragedy of humanity.
How do you feel about cancer screenings?
There's a lot of different methods out
there, mammography, needle biopsy, and
we could go on and on. Yeah. If somebody
has signs and symptoms and they feel
like they might have cancer or their
doctor's screening them, what I'm
getting at here is
is there a continuum from
you know, good
better best
when it comes to assessing, and I've
heard of things like thermal imaging
that are less invasive or supposedly.
How do you feel about all that?
Well, I think the um any kind of imaging
that does not
is non-invasive
uh could be potentially
helpful.
So um
a non-invasive imaging, like you said,
thermal imaging, they're they're trying
to work on on on on blood biopsy, liquid
liquid biopsy, which I think uh
President's uh moonshot project.
I hate to call it that, but
he has a component in there for building
looking more into liquid biopsies.
We we can take in the blood and look and
see if you have certain cancer markers
uh that might predict uh whether or not
uh you should have a certain type of
treatment. But there's still a lot of
false positives and false negatives
associated with that. I I think MRI, PET
scan, anything that you can use to get
an assessment. My my colleagues that are
that work in the area, the radiologists,
uh
these kinds of guys, they're pretty sure
when they look at a an image, not 100%
sure, but maybe a pretty high percentage
sure, to know whether that mass that
you're looking at is malignant or not.
Okay? Now, the field determines that in
order to make that decision, you need to
take a biopsy of the tissue, look at it
under the microscope, and then confirm
what the um
a radiologist has already uh predicted.
That uh that yeah, that's malignant cuz
I can look at the edges, I can I can
look at the image the way it looks and
angles and and they can pretty much
determine whether this is bad or good
um or how bad it could be. But the the
ultimate determination comes comes from
the biopsy material where a pathologist
looks at the the number and structure of
the cells. Uh my concern with that is
that I have read many many many many
papers where the very
uh process of taking sample from the
tissue could provoke the
microenvironment uh
leading to a tumor cell dissemination
from the very procedure to to look at
the tissue to determine whether or not
it's malignant. Now, if it's not if it's
a benign tumor, then you would never
really need to s- to take a biopsy from
it.
Um if you could assess that it would be
benign, you can just cut it out and
debulk it without really doing much
else. But if it is malignant, the last
thing you would want to do is take a
biopsy of that tissue leading to the
process of now spreading it through your
body. And people say it's very rare.
I agree. I didn't say it's very rare.
It's not common.
Uh
biopsy of patients' tumors to cause it
to be uh a terminal malignant cancer is
in fact not common. However, there's
enough papers in the literature to say
that it can happen in multiple different
cancers, not only brain cancer, colon
cancer, breast cancer,
uh all these different kinds of cancers
that I've seen uh where they can stay
actually
uh spread the tumor cells around from
biopsy. Yes, it doesn't happen. It's not
a common thing. But what what about the
poor patients
that dies from that? It needlessly.
Okay? For that person, it's lights out.
That didn't need to happen. You know,
they used to have the morcellation
procedure for uterine polyps in women.
Okay? They pulled that off the market.
Why? Because it's like a kind of a a
lawnmower. It grinds up the polyps uh in
the uterus. And people were getting
metastatic cancer and dying from the
grinding up of the polyps because if one
of those polyps happened to be a
malignant polyp, you're spreading the
malignant cells all over the place. So
they had to stop this morcellation
procedure. That was exactly what I'm
talking about. So you've got to be very
careful. You don't want to stick the
hive when the bees are all in and have
the bees come out. You got to you got to
get rid of it before they they can come
out. That's why I said, if you see
something, go on metabolic therapy, see
if it disappears, and if it doesn't
disappear and it becomes smaller, debulk
it, get rid of it.
You know, don't don't go and chop around
on it, this kind of stuff. That's what I
was getting at. I'm glad you're able to
decipher. There's a continuum from bad
to good when it comes to screening.
Mhm.
even into the therapy, all the stuff we
talked about before, which is another
whole area that we've left at decipher
through and figure out their own path.
You're absolutely right. So everything
has to be done strategically.
Causing the least amount of stress and
harm to the patient under any
conditions. And again, each patient is
different from another patient. And the
sharp people who understand screening
can make those decisions. If they're
trained to know how to make these
decisions and then be very careful about
their recommendations, I think a lot of
people would benefit from this. Or at
least you won't let some people die
needlessly from from a lack of
knowledge.
To this point, we focused on treatment
of cancer for somebody that has cancer
and they want to take an alternative
path.
What I want to end on with you here is
for somebody who is in  healthy
shape right now,
and
what I want to do is pick your brain as
somebody who knows the physiology of
cancer, what we can do preventatively
to live a healthy lifestyle and
hopefully not get to the point where we
have cancer and have to make treatment
decisions that we were talking about
earlier.
Yeah, well, everybody likes to talk
about it. Nobody likes to do it.
Um prevention of cancer
is um
is something it's very difficult in our
in our lifestyle
in the western lifestyle
uh
to everybody's rolling the dice
uh with the hope that they're not going
to get cancer.
It's diet and lifestyle
and our culture
that is ultimately responsible for us
getting cancer. And not only cancer,
heart disease, type 2 diabetes, obesity.
I mean, these things are all linked to
the same problem, which is poor diet and
lack of exercise.
Um if people were really interested in
cancer prevention, if people were really
interested in cancer prevention, we
would not have an obesity epidemic.
Okay?
We would not have an obesity epidemic if
people were really interested in cancer
prevention. If obesity is a major risk
factor for getting cancer, why is why do
we have an obesity epidemic? All right?
Simple question. Um why do we have an
epidemic of type 2 diabetes? If people
were really interested in preventing
cancer, because diabetes and obesity and
all these things are all linked making
you at a higher risk for getting cancer,
because our diet and lifestyle is
preventing us from the prevention
strategy. Right? I mean,
uh
I mean, look at look at the fast food
that we have. I mean, you don't even
have to get out of the car and they hand
you the food through the window. Uh
there's even no exercise to get out. Our
ancestors had to work very very hard to
get food. Yeah, in the in the in the
Paleolithic period, uh we had to hunt
down and kill animals and skin them and
cook them. I mean, it took a lot of
energy, right? And there's no
carbohydrate in that stuff either. So uh
our aboriginal populations had no
cancer.
The great humanitarian physician Albert
Schweitzer went into the jungles of
Africa and said most people never had
cancer. They didn't even know what it
was. Eskimos originally, when they were
first looked at, didn't have cancer.
They don't eat any any any any They're
only eating, you know, whales and
blubber and kinds of stuff, and they
never had cancer. Chimpanzees, our
closest relatives in biological terms,
uh they don't never been a documented
case of breast cancer in a chimpanzee,
and yet now breast cancer has replaced
heart disease as the number one killer
of American women.
Um what the hell is going on here? So uh
the chimp is living on a diet lifestyle
that he had when he first evolved as a
species. We are not. We are far far from
how we evolved as a species. We are now
in in environment rich with poorly
nutritious foods, very little exercise,
we're sitting in front of computers,
we're sitting in cars. Um
Okay, there's your risk. So, you want
How do you prevent this? Well, we're all
not going to go back and live in a cave.
So, uh so, the issue is um you've got to
know what is the risk factor for cancer
and you got to know how to prevent it.
And as I said, if we have an obesity
epidemic, that message is not getting
out. As a matter of fact, they're
blaming our genes on obesity.
Our genes are doing exactly what they
evolved to do. Store energy because we
starved for most of our existence on
this planet. We needed to have a good
and good physiology to store as much
energy because we had to go through
famine. We had to go through a lot of
restrictions, these harsh environments.
And we needed that energy. And those
genes evolved over tens of thousands of
years to allow us to store energy, okay?
Now, we're in environment where there's
poorly nutritious carbs everywhere.
People are getting fat and they're
getting cancer and they're getting all
these other kinds of diseases. So, if
people were really interested in
prevention, there would be no no obesity
epidemic. The fact that we have the
epidemic means that nobody's interested
in prevent Not nobody. Many people in
our society are not interested in
prevention. Once you get cancer, what
are you going to do for me?
Not that difficult.
Well, I think the big challenge is that
to prevent cancer, you have to go
against a lot of the ways that society
is naturally going these days and you
have to do your own research and live an
alternative   lifestyle
to try and get back, like you said, to
the Paleolithic times.
And
there's a lot against us and it does
take a lot of effort to figure it out
and a lot of conflicting information for
people that do decide to get in and do
the learning. So, I do feel for people
and I hope
having these conversations, like I do,
help clarify for people and
I do what I can to to help clarify and
for myself and for others and I
appreciate all you're doing in the
world, too. And this conversation was
fantastic. We covered a lot and I really
appreciate all the work you're putting
out into the world and I wish you the
best. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. And
and you have to realize that the
research that we do here at Boston
College is all dependent on private
foundation and philanthropy.
So, um you know, uh this is the more I
preclinical evidence that I get to
support this, the more it goes into the
clinics and the more we can help people
like that.
So, uh people can always help us out by
supporting some of the foundations that
And you can find those foundations in
the publications that we I encourage
everybody to read our papers. They're
open access.
So, you don't have to go to a library.
You can get them right online, you know?
Let them read the papers and see what
they think. If people feel it's good,
they can email me back and say, "I got
something better. You might want to
might want to try in your preclinical
system." Sometimes I do and sometimes I
get information like that, too.
Well, we're going to link up for how
people can donate below and we'll link
up some of the papers. And again, thank
you for coming on the show.
All right, Jesse, thank you very much.
Now that you're done with my
conversation with Dr. Seyfried, you're
going to want to stick around here and
catch my chat with Fred. We go deep into
his cancer story and how he overcame
stage three colon cancer in 4 months.
I'll see you over there.
So, I'm in front of the doctor and he
tells me, "Okay, I have bad news. It's a
it's a it's a cancer." The more I looked
into it,